Following the execution of a prominent Shiite cleric in Saudi Arabia, Saudi and Iranian officials continue to trade barbs as relations between the two Middle Eastern powerhouses deteriorate. 
After an attack on the Saudi Embassy in Tehran Saturday, Iranian foreign ministry spokesman Jaberi Ansari told the media Monday that Iran is committed to protecting diplomatic missions and reiterated that there were no Saudi diplomats harmed -- or even present -- during the attack. He added, however, that the kingdom is looking for "excuses" to further harm the two countries' formal relations. 
"When it comes to protecting and also safeguarding and observing international commitments regarding protection of diplomatic missions, Iran naturally has taken proper action and will continue to do so," Ansari said. 
He added that Iran had acted to hold perpetrators of the attack on the Saudi mission accountable, but accused Riyadh of using the incident to inflame sectarian tensions between the two. 
"The Saudi government is looking ... for some excuses to pursue its own unwise policies to further tension in the region," he said. 
On Monday, Bahrain also announced it is severing diplomatic ties with Iran, citing Iran's "blatant and dangerous interference" in Bahrain and other Arab countries. 
The United Arab Emirates, meanwhile, announced it was "downgrading" its diplomatic relations with Iran. The UAE recalled its ambassador in Tehran and said it would also reduce the number of diplomats stationed in Iran, according to state news agency WAM. 
The UAE "has taken this exceptional step in light of Iran's ongoing interference in internal GCC and Arab affairs that has recently reached unprecedented levels," a government statement said. 
Saudi Arabia and Iran have long been at odds, but the comments come after Saudi Arabia kicked out Iran's diplomats, saying the attack was the last straw. 
It's not uncommon for countries to boot officials when they're at odds, but analysts say Saudi Arabia's decision to sever diplomatic ties with Iran on the heels of Tehran's execution Saturday of Shiite cleric Nimr al-Nimr could be an ominous sign that something much more serious is in the offing. 